---
layout: post
author: chre
---

Our humane __Brain__ is a wonder things, if you understand it and use it right. Some say the computer is build after the humane brain, but if you read state-of-art information how the brain works in generell you see it is different. What I mean in simple word why it is different. Our brain can process an extrem amount of data in real time and store an extreme amount of data during you life time. Some believe that all computer together are not as good as one human brain. So why it is different. Computer are mostly processing information very fast one after another. Currently (2022) a standard computer have only 8 Cores. So you can have 8 things calculated parallel. But our human brain work full parallel and concurrent. It is a netword where input data is flowing through and produce some output. For me basically it is an i/o device. Brain researcher say that brain is not very fast, so why it can be processing so much data. And this the things I say is different, it works extrem parallel compare to a CPU. What is better? Having ver fast CPU that can basically do one thing after another or you have 1 billion small not so fast CPU that can process things very efficient parallel.

## Data flow processor architecture

Jack Dennis work on data flow architecture that seems to more like an architecture of the humane brain. Data is flowing through the brain and produce output from input. If you read the abstract of the article ["A preliminary architecture for a basic data-flow processor"](https://www.deepdyve.com/lp/association-for-computing-machinery/a-preliminary-architecture-for-a-basic-data-flow-processor-Ej0aB8VR5g) you see that the architectuer sound different from the [von Neumann architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Von_Neumann_architecture) we use today

*Abstract:*

> *A processor is described which can achieve __highly parallel__ execution of programs represented in data-flow form. The language implemented incorporates conditional and iteration mechanisms, and the processor is a step toward a practical data-flow processor for a Fortran-level data-flow language. The processor has a __unique architecture__ which __avoids the problems of processor switching__ and __memory/processor interconnecion__ that usually __limit the degree of realizable concurrent processing__. The architecture offers an unusual solution to the problem of structuring and managing a two-level memory system.*